how do you learn piano finger technique
having strength and controlling your
fingers are an essential part of the
fluidity and technique of a good piano
player learning the right finger
techniques from the beginning build up
the finger strength you need and are the
building blocks that make learning
easier one place your right thumb on the
middle C in the center of the piano and
position the rest of your fingers over
the next four notes so your hand is in
contact with five separate keys to lift
your thumb as high above the key as
possible keeping the other fingers in
contact with the piano and bring it down
forcefully on the note hold your thumb
in this position until the sound of the
note wears off three do the same action
with your remaining four fingers until
your fingers become used to the action
and can do it quickly some of your
fingers will be stronger than others
depending on how often they are used you
may need to practice for some time
before each finger can work easily
independent of the others for repeat the
technique with your left hand by putting
your thumb again on middle C but this
time work from right to left so the
notes become lower if you are
right-handed you will not be used to
using your left hand in this manner and
you should spend enough time until all
your left fingers can move with ease
five play the first five notes with your
right hand again then pass your thumb
under the fingers so your hand is at a
slight angle and play the next note
after your little finger to continue
this is not a regular scale but this
gives a beginner a chance to practice
the crossing motion and play a
progressive series of notes six pick
simple music pieces that use your new
techniques and intersperse simple pieces
with new fingering techniques some
teachers believe that students benefit
more from learning many different
fingering techniques first but this can
be boring for the student
you